# Real Estate Data Cleaning with Python and Excel
## Project Overview
I scraped data from a Bangladeshi real estate website for web scraping practice. The data was raw
and messy, requiring extraction and cleaning to make it structured and ready for analysis. I used
two methods to clean the data: one with Python's pandas, NumPy, and regular expression libraries,
and the other with Excel Power Query.

The original dataset(link to raw dataset) contains **~1K** records of property data. Each record represents a unique
property and includes various attributes such as url, title, property type,	property size, price and more.
## Data Cleaning Process
To address this problem, the following steps were undertaken among many others:
1. **Data Import and Transformation:** Imported the dataset into a pandas DataFrame and Power
Query, then performed the necessary transformations.
2. **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA):** Checked data types, identified null values and duplicates,
and removed records with mostly null values.
3. **Extraction and Cleaning Functions:** Created functions for extracting and cleaning data based
on patterns.
4. **Save the Cleaned Data:** Save the cleaned and structured data into a CSV file.
### Challenge
The most challenging part was cleaning the 'price' column, which contained various formats such
as actual amounts, values in lakhs, crores, and per square feet. Initially, I tried using built-in
functions of Python, but this was not entirely successful. In the second attempt,
I used functions and regular expressions, but it still didn't work perfectly. Finally, in the third
attempt, I combined built-in functions with custom functions and regular expressions, which
successfully cleaned the data.
```Python
# Cleaning price
df['cleaned_price'] = df['price'].str.split('(').str[0]
df['cleaned_price'] = df['cleaned_price'].str.split('/').str[0].str.strip('BDT ').str.replace(',','').str.strip()

# Function to unify measure unit
def unify_price(price):
    if pd.isna(price):
        return np.nan
    
    if 'Lac' in price or 'Lakh' in price:
        match = re.search(r'(\d+\.?\d+)', price)     #re.search(r'(\d+\.?\d*) Lac', price)
        return float(match.group(1)) * 1e5           ## 1 lakh = 100,000 = 10^5
    
    elif 'Cr' in price or 'Cr.' in price:
        match = re.search(r'(\d+\.\d+)', price) or re.search(r'(\d+)', price) 
        if match:
            return float(match.group(1)) * 1e7       ## 1 crore = 10 million = 10^7
    
    # Remove non-numeric characters except for digits
    cleaned_price = re.sub(r'[^\d]', '', price)
    if cleaned_price == '':
        return np.nan
    else:
        return cleaned_price
    
# Apply function to price column
df['price(BDT)'] = df['cleaned_price'].apply(unify_price)
```

### Limitations
1. Floor Column: Could not figure out how to clean ‘floor’ column of the dataset.
2. Manual Adjustments: Some manual transformations were required to achieve the desired
cleaning in when using Excel Power Query of the ‘price’ column.
## Files
1. real_estate_raw_data.csv: Raw file. [Link Here](https://github.com/rumana-amin/Data-Transformation-Cleaning-Wrangling/blob/main/01.%20Real%20Estate%20Data%20Cleaning/real_estate_raw_data.csv)
2. real_estate_cleaning.ipynb: Python cleaning script.[Link Here](https://github.com/rumana-amin/Data-Transformation-Cleaning-Wrangling/blob/main/01.%20Real%20Estate%20Data%20Cleaning/real_estate_cleaning.ipynb)
3. output_final.csv: Cleaned and structured CSV file generated by the Python script.[Link Here](https://github.com/rumana-amin/Data-Transformation-Cleaning-Wrangling/blob/main/01.%20Real%20Estate%20Data%20Cleaning/output_final.csv)
4. Real Estate Cleaned Data.xlsx: Cleaned and structured Excel file generated by Power. [Link Here](https://github.com/rumana-amin/Data-Transformation-Cleaning-Wrangling/blob/main/01.%20Real%20Estate%20Data%20Cleaning/Real%20Estate%20Cleaned%20Data.xlsx)
Query.
